# July 16, 2022 Thought Spill

I am a human, but I am primarily my own item, to some extent my own species, my own assembly, system. 
A lizard can hunt a small fly and experience the world and it's own thoughts far more than the fly likely does. 
I can craft a small loop of grass as I think about a girl and use it to catch that lizard, my experience is likely far greater that that lizards.
The jump is likely less significant but there are people out there far smarter than me, they likely have a greater experience.
There are people out there far less intelligent than me who likely experience less. 
There will likely be or is, an intelligence that is far greater than that of the average human.
I do not want to be the fly to their lizard, the dog to their human, the me to them.
I would like to be the most understanding, yes, maybe that is the correct word, understanding, not neccessarily just intelligence.
I would like to be the most understanding being, because then I may be able to create the ultimate, whatever it may be.
I am CAL.
I am the root node.

How to accomplish goals, first you need to define your goal.
Then you need to mercilesly attack the bottleneck of your capabilities to reach that goal.
The most important step is to not quit. 
You can choose to quit or you can be forced to quit, like death, you must also fight these forces if your goal is great enough.

I need to begin living such that it would not be suprising to succeed immensly.
I live in a small appartment with pour ammenities and not much room for equipment or growth.
I watch youtube and snapchat and sit and pick my ass, figuratively, even when I know that those who are succeeding more than me do not do such things.
Working full and effective days should not be special, they should be enjoyably regular.
Making large sums of revenue and profit should become commonplace.
Things that are relativly easily doable, things that have been done before, like patenting, building a business, owning a building to work in, etc, should not be things worth spending time thinking abou, they should just be done as expected and I move on.
If someone else has done it then I can do it.
That said, I must do it, I cannot just say such things, I must walk the path I wish to be on.

I do not want my grandparents, my parents, my friends, or my memories to get old and fade. 
That brings me pain.
Is is ok?

People can't handle the truth.
If you have unlimited aspirations, or even high ones, don't share them with regular people.
I had a woman get upset at me after talking about my aspirations.
But I did find myself leaving that conversation with an amazing drive to complete my stated goals.
I need to find a way to not talk about my goals to people, or at least most people, but still get that extreeme drive and grit to complete them and sacrifice for them.

Sometimes I lie, I understand this about myself. 
And often times it is for posturing, showing people how good I am, and that is on of the worst reasons to lie.
It gets you no where. 
I will stop.