neoessentialism-manifesto.md, before:

<h1 align="left">Neoessentialism Manifesto</h1>
<p align="left">
by <a href="https://caldayham.com" title="go to caldayham.com"><strong>Cal</strong></a>  
<p>

```
Bedrock foundation for continued conciousness.
Neoessentialists rely on first principles to set and achieve goals. 
The ultimate goal is one of understanding, because to understand is to be free.
```
<br>

## Overview  

Real quick, this is not so much an ideology but more a documentation of how I live my life. It has evolved
and will continue to evolve and change with my ethos at the center.  Ok, without further adue, read on
fellow human.
<br>

What is your purpose? I have no fucking clue. 
That said, I'm fairly certain that the first step is increasing your understanding. Doing 
so will allow you to set higher goals, reach them faster, and compound at a much faster rate. 
If there is a purpose I am relativly confident 
it does not reside in mediocraty or satisfaction in ones progress. Many people have come and gone, many 
will likely do the same, but this is your shot. Put asside lack of free will as commonly accepted and 
sit for a moment in the wonder of conciousness. If trillions of grains of sand were falling from the sky 
and, using that energy, developed systems that were as amazingly complex as our own, that would be 
spectacular. Your conciousness is spectacular.  

So what is Neoessentialism and why am I trying to put a name to something that at it's heart is not much 
more than a jumping point, a bedrock to build on?

Why is it called "Neoessentialism"? Neo means new, some people have rose colored glasses for anything "new" 
and some people have the opposite. New in this sense is simply meant to display that this bedrock, this
framework that can be forked and merged and adapted, can do just that. The biggest mistake anyone can make
is believeing they know everything, besides inaction of course, but they are often synonymous. Essentialism
because it is one of the greatest inhibitors to have too much bloat. Choices are great if you can organize 
and categorize them, but our current proccessors are not built to make good decisions when presented with 
and overload of data. The essentials, the things that allow you to do what you need to and keep moving, are
what you should build your life on. Additionally, showing that something is essential is a very first-principles
type task, one that has many forward pointing benefits. There you go, Neoessentialism.   
<br>

## Core-Tenants  

### Purpose  
Neoessentialism is, at its root, a goal oriented framework. That is to say that it is built to help those
who implement it partially or wholly with completing goals. The only goal that is specifically laid out 
in Neoessentialism is the goal of understanding. 

Goals are much of life, this text uses a very extensible definition of the word goal, one in which it is
a goal to make 10 million dollars in revenue in a year, but it is also a goal to have a better relationship
with your family, or own a house. I don't think anyone would say that these aren't complete embodyments 
of the colloqueal variant of 'goal', but I don't quite think that many people have grassped just how much of 
life is acomplishing goals. Some goals may never be spoken or thought of, but they happen and, by the definition 
employed here, are goals. 
<br>
<br>

### Logical  
Logical is a tricky subject, if you want to read something super interesting, thought provoking, and (at least
to me), a little frusterating, you should check out <a href="https://slatestarcodex.com/2017/03/16/book-review-seeing-like-a-state/"><strong>this</strong></a>
book review on *Seeing Like a State* by James C. Scott, or just read the book yourself although I love 
the commentary in the review and that I can read and digest it in an hour. Essentially the book talks about
how reasoned solutions, such as square city blocks, often fail when compared to the naturally evolved 
solution that was there before. This, while interesting, is a little frusterating to me. I am a fairly 
"square edges and formulas" kinda guy (at least I often try to be). That said I think that there has been an 
exponential advancement in society due to our attempts to create reasoned and more efficient solutions. We should
not let the failures drive pessimism towards reasoned solutions, but we should also not expect that our 
reasoning is perfect. Especially not on the first implementation. 

Neoessentialism is logical and follows first principles, by definition of what first principles are this 
should be sufficient for building towards our goals. If it is not then the error lies in our assumptions
on what the first principles should be or in how we implement them in our reasoning. This is my current opinion.
<br>
<br>

### Fault  
One of the most controvercial and *possibly* slightly illogical pillars of Neoessentialism is that of Fault. 
The fault of your state lies on you. This works nicely when talking to a "successful" human (whatevery you
define that as) but try telling a poor and raped human that the state they are in is their fault alone. Yet, 
that is what I am doing. Am I privilaged to say this because I have never really faced things as horrible 
as some? Possibly, it would definitely be more difficult to come to this conclusion if my state was less 
comfortable (not that it is all that comfortable to be deciding if your life is worth it for the majority
of your formative years). 

All that said, if it is not your fault then whos is it? Who can change it? If you say that it may not be your 
fault but you still can change it then I say we just have different deffinitions of fault (I will attatch a 
compatible dictionary to this repository at some point). To fully better yourself you must accept not only your
actions as your fault but also your state. From that point you can either hate yourself (stupid), or start
taking action to bring your state up, id est: setting goals and reaching them. 
<br>
<br>

### Forward  
Action over innaction ALWAYS. It is better to take the wrong turn than take no turn at all. That is not to say
don't be patient, but it is a fine line between patience and stagnation. The person who makes the wrong turn,
so long as they don't loose sight of their goal, will often come around and have learned many things from the path they
took to get there. The person who stagnates while waiting for the correct path to their goal to make itself apparent 
is one that will achieve much less, and will often compensate for their lack of action with outward pessimism
aimed at the actions of others.
<br>
<br>


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

added more to the forward pillar in neoessentialism

neoessentialism-manifesto.md, after:

<h1 align="left">Neoessentialism Manifesto</h1>
<p align="left">
by <a href="https://caldayham.com" title="go to caldayham.com"><strong>Cal</strong></a>  
<p>

```
Bedrock foundation for continued conciousness.
Neoessentialists rely on first principles to set and achieve goals. 
The ultimate goal is one of understanding, because to understand is to be free.
```
<br>

## Overview  

Real quick, this is not so much an ideology but more a documentation of how I live my life. It has evolved
and will continue to evolve and change with my ethos at the center.  Ok, without further adue, read on
fellow human.
<br>

What is your purpose? I have no fucking clue. 
That said, I'm fairly certain that the first step is increasing your understanding. Doing 
so will allow you to set higher goals, reach them faster, and compound at a much faster rate. 
If there is a purpose I am relativly confident 
it does not reside in mediocraty or satisfaction in ones progress. Many people have come and gone, many 
will likely do the same, but this is your shot. Put asside lack of free will as commonly accepted and 
sit for a moment in the wonder of conciousness. If trillions of grains of sand were falling from the sky 
and, using that energy, developed systems that were as amazingly complex as our own, that would be 
spectacular. Your conciousness is spectacular.  

So what is Neoessentialism and why am I trying to put a name to something that at it's heart is not much 
more than a jumping point, a bedrock to build on?

Why is it called "Neoessentialism"? Neo means new, some people have rose colored glasses for anything "new" 
and some people have the opposite. New in this sense is simply meant to display that this bedrock, this
framework that can be forked and merged and adapted, can do just that. The biggest mistake anyone can make
is believeing they know everything, besides inaction of course, but they are often synonymous. Essentialism
because it is one of the greatest inhibitors to have too much bloat. Choices are great if you can organize 
and categorize them, but our current proccessors are not built to make good decisions when presented with 
and overload of data. The essentials, the things that allow you to do what you need to and keep moving, are
what you should build your life on. Additionally, showing that something is essential is a very first-principles
type task, one that has many forward pointing benefits. There you go, Neoessentialism.   
<br>

## Core-Tenants  

### Purpose  
Neoessentialism is, at its root, a goal oriented framework. That is to say that it is built to help those
who implement it partially or wholly with completing goals. The only goal that is specifically laid out 
in Neoessentialism is the goal of understanding. 

Goals are much of life, this text uses a very extensible definition of the word goal, one in which it is
a goal to make 10 million dollars in revenue in a year, but it is also a goal to have a better relationship
with your family, or own a house. I don't think anyone would say that these aren't complete embodyments 
of the colloqueal variant of 'goal', but I don't quite think that many people have grassped just how much of 
life is acomplishing goals. Some goals may never be spoken or thought of, but they happen and, by the definition 
employed here, are goals. 
<br>
<br>

### Logical  
Logical is a tricky subject, if you want to read something super interesting, thought provoking, and (at least
to me), a little frusterating, you should check out <a href="https://slatestarcodex.com/2017/03/16/book-review-seeing-like-a-state/"><strong>this</strong></a>
book review on *Seeing Like a State* by James C. Scott, or just read the book yourself although I love 
the commentary in the review and that I can read and digest it in an hour. Essentially the book talks about
how reasoned solutions, such as square city blocks, often fail when compared to the naturally evolved 
solution that was there before. This, while interesting, is a little frusterating to me. I am a fairly 
"square edges and formulas" kinda guy (at least I often try to be). That said I think that there has been an 
exponential advancement in society due to our attempts to create reasoned and more efficient solutions. We should
not let the failures drive pessimism towards reasoned solutions, but we should also not expect that our 
reasoning is perfect. Especially not on the first implementation. 

Neoessentialism is logical and follows first principles, by definition of what first principles are this 
should be sufficient for building towards our goals. If it is not then the error lies in our assumptions
on what the first principles should be or in how we implement them in our reasoning. This is my current opinion.
<br>
<br>

### Fault  
One of the most controvercial and *possibly* slightly illogical pillars of Neoessentialism is that of Fault. 
The fault of your state lies on you. This works nicely when talking to a "successful" human (whatevery you
define that as) but try telling a poor and raped human that the state they are in is their fault alone. Yet, 
that is what I am doing. Am I privilaged to say this because I have never really faced things as horrible 
as some? Possibly, it would definitely be more difficult to come to this conclusion if my state was less 
comfortable (not that it is all that comfortable to be deciding if your life is worth it for the majority
of your formative years). 

All that said, if it is not your fault then whos is it? Who can change it? If you say that it may not be your 
fault but you still can change it then I say we just have different deffinitions of fault (I will attatch a 
compatible dictionary to this repository at some point). To fully better yourself you must accept not only your
actions as your fault but also your state. From that point you can either hate yourself (stupid), or start
taking action to bring your state up, id est: setting goals and reaching them. 
<br>
<br>

### Forward  
Action over innaction ALWAYS. It is better to take the wrong turn than take no turn at all. That is not to say
don't be patient, but it is a fine line between patience and stagnation. The person who makes the wrong turn,
so long as they don't loose sight of their goal, will often come around and have learned many things from the path they
took to get there. The person who stagnates while waiting for the correct path to their goal to make itself apparent 
is one that will achieve much less, and will often compensate for their lack of action with outward pessimism
aimed at the actions of others.

How does one insure that they are progressing (at the fastest possible pace, and in the right direction)?
3 simple steps: 
	1) define your forward, it should be towards greater understanding but that path will look different
	based on your setup. This is essentially setting your goal state, and be specific.
	2) find your bottleneck, weakest link, progression block, etc, and eliminate it. (extreem focus and prioritization combined with 
	logical and simple solutions that can often be copied directly from other people who have already had
	your problem) then keep doing this, it is unreasonable to fail if you have truly eliminated your weakest points. But this is nearly the hardest part.
	3) don't fucking quit, don't fucking settle, don't fucking quit. This is the hardest part because, as systems,
	humans are very prone to low-enthalpy states, ie stagnation and regression. There is no passive rewards, only leveraged 
	rewards.
<br>
<br>


<p align="right">(<a href="#top">back to top</a>)</p>
